Updated test case Zone09 (#870)
zonemaster/zonemaster: docs/specifications/tests/Zone-TP/zone09.md

       3. the AA flag is not set in the response, or
       4. there is no SOA record with owner name matching the query.

    2. Else, send the MX query over UDP to the name server and collect the
       response, and:
       1. If the response has the TC flag set, re-query over TCP and use that
          response instead.
       2. If there is no DNS response, then add the name server (IP) to the
          set *No Response MX Query*.
       3. Else, if the RCODE of response is not "NoError" ([IANA RCODE List]),
          then add the name server (IP) and the RCODE to the set
          *Unexpected RCODE MX Query*.
       4. Else, if the AA flag is not set in the response, then add the name
          server (IP) to the set *Non-authoritative MX*.
       5. Else, if there is no MX record with matching owner name in the
          answer section, then add the name server (IP) to the set
          *No MX Record*.
       6. Else add the name server (IP) and the MX record RDATA set to the set
          *MX Record RDATA*. (One MX record RDATA set can contain RDATA from
          more than one MX record.)

11. If the set *No Response MX Query* is non-empty, then output

>     *[Z09_NO_RESPONSE_MX_QUERY]* and list those name servers.

Author: The wording came from a year ago. I have now rephrased it the same way as -- hopefully -- all other open PRs for specifications.

have that function and are probably not meant to be included in the
specification in [RFC 2142]. On the contrary,
[Internet Architecture Board] concludes in a report
"[Dotless Domains Considered Harmful][IAB Statement]" that TLD names
should not be mail domains. In this test case TLDs are not only
excluded from the requirement of being an mail domain, if found to
be, a warning will be generated that points that out.

It is therefore expected for every domain (zone), excluding those
excepted above, to publish an MX record in apex of the zone (i.e.
in the same position as the SOA record). If MX is not present, SMTP
*can* deliver email using an address record (A or AAAA) as specified
in [RFC 5321][RFC 5321#section-5.1], section 5.1, but that possibility
is not in common use. This test case only checks for MX record since
that is the absolutely dominating way to configure support for email.
If an address record is found in apex it is more often used for web
service rather than mail service.

[RFC 7505] standardizes "Null MX" which in means that there is no
mail service for the domain. If a "Null MX" is found, it is considered
to be the same as there is no MX.

> In this test case, the follwoing zone types are excepted from the

Reviewer: "follwoing" -> "following"

"excepted" is very close to "expected", would "excluded" work instead here?

requirement of MX:

* Root zone
* TLD zone
* Zone in the .ARPA tree

The following zone type is expected not to have an MX (considered harmful):

* TLD zone

## Scope

It is assumed that *Child Zone* is tested and reported by [Basic04]. This test
case will just ignore non-responsive name servers or name servers not giving a
correct DNS response for an authoritative name server.

## Inputs

* "Child Zone" - The domain name to be tested.

## Summary

* Basic name server problems are not reported by this test case.

> * A notify is issues if MX is missing, except for root, an ARPA zone and a TLD.

Reviewer: "is issues" -> "is issued" ?

* A warning is issued if a TLD *has* an MX.

Message Tag outputted               | Level   | Arguments               | Description of when message tag is outputted
:-----------------------------------|:--------|:------------------------|:--------------------------------------------
Z09_INCONSISTENT_MX_RRSETS          | WARNING |                         | Some name servers returns MX RRset and other none.
Z09_MX_FOUND                        | INFO    | ns_ip_list              | List of name servers that return MX RRset.
Z09_MX_DATA                         | INFO    | ns_ip_list, domain_list | The mail targets in the MX RRset returned by some name servers, and a list of those.

> Z09_NON-AUTHORITATIVE_MX_RESPONSE   | WARNING | ns_ip_list              | List of name servers that gave non-AA response on MX query.

Reviewer: "NON-AUTHORITATIVE": shouldn't it be a "_" -> "NON_AUTHORITATIVE" ?

I guess that "non-AA response" stands for "non authoritative response" (am I right?). Is the phrasing "non-AA response" common in the DNS community?

severity level can be changed in the [Zonemaster-Engine profile]. Also see the
[Severity Level Definitions] document.

The argument names in the Arguments column lists the arguments used in the
message. The argument names are defined in the [argument list].

## Test procedure

1.  Create an SOA query for the *Child Zone* without OPT record (no EDNS)
    ("SOA Query").

2.  Create an MX query for the *Child Zone* without OPT record (no EDNS)
    ("MX Query").

3.  Obtain the set of name server IP addresses using [Method4] and [Method5]
    ("Name Server IP").

4. Create the following empty sets

    1.  Name server IP addresses ("No Response MX Query").
    2.  Name server IP addresses and RCODE value ("Unexpected RCODE MX Query").
    3.  Name server IP addresses ("Non-authoritative MX").
    4.  Name server IP addresses ("No MX RRset").
    5.  Name server IP addresses and MX RRset ("MX RRset").

5.  For each name server IP in *Name Server IP* do:

    1. Send *SOA Query" over UDP to the name server.
    2. Go to next name server IP if at least one of the following criteria is
       met:
       1. There is no DNS response.

>        2. The RCODE of the response is not "NoError" (IANA RCODE List).

Reviewer: Missing link on "IANA RCODE List"

       3. The AA flag is not set in the response.
       4. There is no SOA record with owner name matching the query.

    2. Send *MX Query* over UDP to the name server and collect the
       response, and:
       1. If the response has the TC flag set, re-query over TCP and use that
          response instead.
       2. If there is no DNS response, then add the name server IP to the
          *No Response MX Query* set.
       3. Else, if the RCODE of response is not "NoError" ([IANA RCODE List]),
          then add the name server IP and the RCODE to the
          *Unexpected RCODE MX Query* set.
       4. Else, if the AA flag is not set in the response, then add the name

>           server IP to the *Non-authoritative MX* set.

Reviewer: This is maybe a silly question, how can we have the AA flag not set here but set in 1.3 (so that we can go on with the same name server)?

Author: It is unlikely. If we ignore it here, we could get strange results when it happens, but that is maybe OK. -- The zone could be served by a DNS "firewall" that responds on some queries but forwards others to the real name server for other queries. -- The zone could be served by two name servers behind a load balancer, and one of the name servers is misconfigured. We send two queries and they do not go to the same server.

Reviewer: Fair enough. So this is just an extra check that might never catch anything. This is fine for me.

       5. Else, if there is no MX record with matching owner name in the answer
          section, then add the name server (IP) to the *No MX RRset* set.
       6. Else do:
          1. Extract the MX RRset from the response.
          2. Add the name server IP and the MX RRset to the *MX RRset* set.

6.  If the set *No Response MX Query* is non-empty, then output
    *[Z09_NO_RESPONSE_MX_QUERY]* and list those name servers.

7.  If the set *Unexpected RCODE MX Query* is non-empty, then for each RCODE
    in the set, do:
    * Output *[Z09_UNEXPECTED_RCODE_MX_RESPONSE]* and print the RCODE value

>       ([IANA RCODE List]) and list the those name servers.

Reviewer: "the those" -> "those"

Author: Disappeared when I changed wording.

Message Tag outputted               | Level   | Arguments               | Description of when message tag is outputted
:-----------------------------------|:--------|:------------------------|:--------------------------------------------
Z09_INCONSISTENT_MX_RRSETS          | WARNING |                         | Some name servers returns MX RRset and other none.
Z09_MISSING_MAIL_TARGET             | NOTICE  |                         | The child zone has no mail target (no MX).
Z09_MX_DATA                         | INFO    | ns_ip_list, domain_list | The mail targets in the MX RRset returned by some name servers, and a list of those.
Z09_MX_FOUND                        | INFO    | ns_ip_list              | List of name servers that return MX RRset.
Z09_NON_AUTHORITATIVE_MX_RESPONSE   | WARNING | ns_ip_list              | List of name servers that gave non-authoritative response on the MX query.
Z09_NO_MX_FOUND                     | INFO    | ns_ip_list              | List of name servers that did not return MX RRset.
Z09_NO_RESPONSE_MX_QUERY            | WARNING | ns_ip_list              | List of name servers that did not respond on MX query.

> Z09_NULL_MX_WITH_NON_ZERO_PREFERENCE| NOTICE  |                         | The child zone has a null MX with incorrect preference (must be 0).

Reviewer 2: Maybe leave the value judgement out of the description?
```suggestion
Z09_NULL_MX_WITH_NON_ZERO_PREFERENCE| NOTICE  |                         | The child zone has a null MX with non-zero preference.
```

> Z09_NULL_MX_WITH_OTHER_MX           | WARNING |                         | The child zone has a null MX but incorrectly mixed with other MX records.

Reviewer 2: Maybe leave the value judgement out of the description?

```suggestion
Z09_NULL_MX_WITH_OTHER_MX           | WARNING |                         | The child zone has a null MX mixed with other MX records.
```

> Z09_ROOT_EMAIL_DOMAIN_MEANINGLESS   | NOTIFY  |                         | The root zone has an MX RRset, which is meaningless.

Reviewer 2: Maybe leave the value judgement out of the tag name and description?
```suggestion
Z09_ROOT_EMAIL_DOMAIN               | NOTIFY  |                         | The root zone has an MX RRset.
```

> Z09_TLD_EMAIL_DOMAIN_HARMFUL        | WARNING |                         | The child zone is a TLD and has MX, which is considered harmful.

Reviewer 2: Maybe leave the value judgement out of the tag name and description?
```suggestion
Z09_TLD_EMAIL_DOMAIN                | WARNING |                         | The child zone is a TLD and has MX.
```

Z09_UNEXPECTED_RCODE_MX_RESPONSE    | WARNING | ns_ip_list, rcode       | The name servers listed returns unexpected RCODE value (listed) on the MX query.

The value in the Level column is the default severity level of the message. The
severity level can be changed in the [Zonemaster-Engine profile]. Also see the
[Severity Level Definitions] document.

The argument names in the Arguments column lists the arguments used in the
message. The argument names are defined in the [argument list].

## Test procedure

1.  Create an SOA query for the *Child Zone* without OPT record (no EDNS)
    ("SOA Query").

2.  Create an MX query for the *Child Zone* without OPT record (no EDNS)
    ("MX Query").

3.  Obtain the set of name server IP addresses using [Method4] and [Method5]
    ("Name Server IP").

4. Create the following empty sets

    1.  Name server IP addresses ("No Response MX Query").

>     2.  Name server IP addresses and RCODE value ("Unexpected RCODE MX Query").

Reviewer 2: The data type of the set isn't clear from the description. Maybe something like this?
```suggestion
    2.  Name server IP address and RCODE value pairs ("Unexpected RCODE MX Query").
```

    3.  Name server IP addresses ("Non-authoritative MX").
    4.  Name server IP addresses ("No MX RRset").

>     5.  Name server IP addresses and MX RRset ("MX RRset").

Reviewer 2: The data type of the set isn't clear from the description. Maybe something like this?
```suggestion
    5.  Name server IP address and MX RRset pairs ("MX RRset").
```

5.  For each name server IP in *Name Server IP* do:

>     1. Send *SOA Query" over UDP to the name server.

Reviewer: typo: double quote `"` instead of asterisk '*'

Author: Fixed.

10. If the *MX RRset* set is non-empty, then do:
    1. If the RRsets in *MX RRset* are not equal for all name servers then do:
       1. Output *[Z09_INCONSISTENT_MX_RRSETS]*.
       2. For each RRset in *MX RRset*, output *[Z09_MX_DATA]* with the mail
          target from the RDATA and the associated name server IP addresses in
          the set.
    2. Else do:
       1. If the mailtarget of any of the MX records in the RRset in *MX RRset*
          is "." ("[Null MX][RFC 7505#section-3]") then do:
          1. If there are more than one record in the MX RRset, then output
             *[Z09_NULL_MX_WITH_OTHER_MX]* with the mail targets from the RDATA
             of MX records.
          2. If the preference of the "Null MX" is non-zero then output
             *[Z09_NULL_MX_WITH_NON_ZERO_PREFERENCE]*.
       2. Output *[Z09_TLD_EMAIL_DOMAIN_HARMFUL]* if *Child Zone* is a TLD
          (top-level domain), unless the MX RRset is a single
          "[Null MX][RFC 7505#section-3]" record (mail target is ".").
       3. Output *[Z09_ROOT_EMAIL_DOMAIN_MEANINGLESS]* if *Child Zone* is the root
          zone, unless the MX RRset is a single "[Null MX][RFC 7505#section-3]"

>           record (mail target is ".").

Reviewer 2: These two steps are somewhat complex.
* Both could be shortened by factoring out the "unless the MX RRset is a single Null MX record" condition.
* It would be nice if they used the prefix-form of `if` like all the other outputting steps.

Author: Updated wording.

# ZONE09: MX record present

## Test case identifier
**ZONE09**

## Table of contents

* [Objective](#Objective)
* [Scope](#Scope)
* [Inputs](#Inputs)
* [Summary](#Summary)
* [Test procedure](#Test-procedure)
* [Outcome(s)](#Outcomes)
* [Special procedural requirements](#Special-procedural-requirements)
* [Intercase dependencies](#Intercase-dependencies)
* [Terminology](#terminology)

## Objective

It is strongly recommended in [RFC 2142][RFC 2142#section-7],
section 7, that every domain should have a mailbox named
hostmaster@DOMAIN (where DOMAIN is *Child Zone* in this test case).

> For simplicity and regularity, it is strongly recommended that the
> well known mailbox name HOSTMASTER always be used
> \<HOSTMASTER@domain\>.

It is therefore expected for every domain (zone), excluding some cases described

> below above, to publish an MX record in apex of the zone (i.e. in the same

Author: Corrected.

> position as the SOA record). If MX is not present, SMTP *can* deliver email using

Author: Updated.

> an address record (A or AAAA) as specified in [RFC 5321][RFC 5321#section-5.1],

Author: I disagree. Unless you know the term you have to look it to no value for this specification.

section 5.1, but that possibility is not in common use. This test case only
checks for MX record and ignores the possibility to use address records for email

> since the absolutely dominating way to configure support for email is to use MX.

Author: Updated, but not fully as proposed.

If an address record is found in apex it is more often used for web service rather

> than email service.

Author: Updated.

> Even if not mentioned in [RFC 2142], there are some exception to the

Author: Fixed.

rule above.

The purpose of zone in the .ARPA tree is to hold infrastructural identifier,

> and it is not expected that those are used as email domains, i.e. being at the

Author: Updated.

right of the at-sign ("@") in an email address ([RFC 3172]). This also means that
the well known mailbox is not expected for reverse zones (zone under in-addr.arpa
or ip6.arpa). Such zone are therefore excluded from the requirement in this test

> case.

Author: Not this time.

The root zone cannot be an email domain since the email domain is
the part to the left of the trailing dot, e.g. "example.com" is the
email domain for the apex of "example.com.". The root zone is
excluded from the requirement.

Top-level domains ([TLDs][TLD]) can technically function as email domains
([RCF 5321][RFC 5321#section-2.3.5], section 2.3.5) but they rarely have that

> function and are probably not meant to be included in the specification in
> [RFC 2142]. On the contrary, [Internet Architecture Board] concludes in a report

Reviewer 2: Do we really need to mention RFC 2142 here? Isn't it overruled by the newer RFC 5321?
```suggestion
function. The [Internet Architecture Board] concludes in a report
```

Author: It does not say so.

Reviewer 2: I'm sorry, I don't follow. What does not say what?

Author: Updated.

Z09_ROOT_EMAIL_DOMAIN               | NOTIFY  |                         | Root zone with a [non-Null MX][Null MX].
Z09_TLD_EMAIL_DOMAIN                | WARNING |                         | The child zone is a [TLD] and has a [non-Null MX][Null MX].
Z09_UNEXPECTED_RCODE_MX_RESPONSE    | WARNING | ns_ip_list, rcode       | The name servers listed returns unexpected RCODE value (listed) on the MX query.

The value in the Level column is the default severity level of the message. The
severity level can be changed in the [Zonemaster-Engine profile]. Also see the
[Severity Level Definitions] document.

The argument names in the Arguments column lists the arguments used in the
message. The argument names are defined in the [argument list].

## Test procedure

1.  Create an SOA query for the *Child Zone* without OPT record (no EDNS)
    ("SOA Query").

2.  Create an MX query for the *Child Zone* without OPT record (no EDNS)
    ("MX Query").

3.  Obtain the set of name server IP addresses using [Method4] and [Method5]
    ("Name Server IP").

4. Create the following empty sets

    1.  Name server IP address ("No Response MX Query").

>     2.  Name server IP address and and associated RCODE value ("Unexpected RCODE MX Query").

Author: Fixed.

# ZONE09: MX record present

## Test case identifier
**ZONE09**

## Table of contents

* [Objective](#Objective)
* [Scope](#Scope)
* [Inputs](#Inputs)
* [Summary](#Summary)
* [Test procedure](#Test-procedure)
* [Outcome(s)](#Outcomes)
* [Special procedural requirements](#Special-procedural-requirements)
* [Intercase dependencies](#Intercase-dependencies)
* [Terminology](#terminology)

## Objective

It is strongly recommended in [RFC 2142][RFC 2142#section-7],
section 7, that every domain should have a mailbox named
hostmaster@DOMAIN (where DOMAIN is *Child Zone* in this test case).

> For simplicity and regularity, it is strongly recommended that the
> well known mailbox name HOSTMASTER always be used
> \<HOSTMASTER@domain\>.

It is therefore expected for every domain (zone), excluding some cases described
below, to publish an MX record in apex of the zone (i.e. in the same position as
the SOA record).

If MX is not present, SMTP *can* deliver email using an address record (A or
AAAA) as specified in [RFC 5321][RFC 5321#section-5.1], section 5.1, but that
possibility is not in common use.

> This test case only checks for MX record and ignores the possibility to use
> address records for email since the.

Reviewer 2: The end of this sentence looks wrong.

```suggestion
This test case only checks for MX record and ignores the possibility to use
address records for email.
```

Author: Fixed.

Even if not mentioned in [RFC 2142], there are some exceptions to the
rule to include MX and mail target for a domain.

> The purpose of zone in the .ARPA tree is to hold infrastructural identifier,
> and it is not expected that those are used as [Email Domains][Email Domain]

Reviewer 2: The grammar seems off here.
```suggestion
The purpose of zones in the .ARPA tree is to hold infrastructural identifiers.
They are not expected to be used as [Email Domains][Email Domain]
```

Author: Updated.

# ZONE09: MX record present

## Test case identifier
**ZONE09**

## Table of contents

* [Objective](#Objective)
* [Scope](#Scope)
* [Inputs](#Inputs)
* [Summary](#Summary)
* [Test procedure](#Test-procedure)
* [Outcome(s)](#Outcomes)
* [Special procedural requirements](#Special-procedural-requirements)
* [Intercase dependencies](#Intercase-dependencies)
* [Terminology](#terminology)

## Objective

It is strongly recommended in [RFC 2142][RFC 2142#section-7],
section 7, that every domain should have a mailbox named

> hostmaster@DOMAIN (where DOMAIN is *Child Zone* in this test case).

Author: Not as far as I remember now. The domain part is always case insensitive, whereas the mailbox part in principle is not, but it is in practice. I change to match the RFC.

> For simplicity and regularity, it is strongly recommended that the
> well known mailbox name HOSTMASTER always be used
> \<HOSTMASTER@domain\>.

> Thsi test case therefore expected for every domain (zone), excluding some cases

Author: Fixed.

> Thsi test case therefore expected for every domain (zone), excluding some cases

Author: Fixed.

reverse zones (zone under in-addr.arpa or ip6.arpa). Such zone are therefore
excluded by this test case from the requirement of MX in the apex.

The root zone cannot be an [Email Domain] since the email domain is
the part to the left of the trailing dot, and the root zone owner name has
nothing left of the traling do. The root zone is excluded by this test case from
the requirement of MX in the apex.

Top-level domains ([TLDs][TLD]) can technically function as
[Email Domains][Email Domain] ([RCF 5321][RFC 5321#section-2.3.5], section 2.3.5)
but they rarely have that function and are probably not meant to be included in
the specification in [RFC 2142]. [Internet Architecture Board]
concludes in a report "[Dotless Domains Considered Harmful][IAB Statement]" that
domain names that only consists of one label, e.g. "se", "fr" or "com", should
not be used for various Internet services. This means [TLD] names should not be
used as [Email Domains][Email Domain]. In this test case [TLDs][TLD] are not only
excluded from the requirement of being an [Email Domain], if found to be, a
message will be generated that points that out.

> [RFC 7505] standardizes "Null MX" which in means that there is no email service

Author: Fixed.

> [RFC 7505] standardizes "Null MX" which in means that there is no email service

Author: Fixed.

for the domain. A "Null MX" is accepted for any type of domain.
[RFC 7505][RFC 7505#section-3], section 3, also specifies that the "Null MX" must
be the sole MX record and its preference must be zero.

In this test case, the following zone types are excluded from the requirement of
MX:

* Root zone
* [TLD] zone
* Zone in the .ARPA tree

> The following zone type is expected not to have any MX (considered harmful):

Author: Fixed

Z09_INCONSISTENT_MX_RRSETS |WARNING|                         | The name servers return different MX RRsets.
Z09_MISSING_MAIL_TARGET    | NOTICE|                         | The child zone has no mail target (no MX).
Z09_MX_DATA                | INFO  | ns_ip_list, domain_list | The mail targets in the MX RRset, "{domain_list}", as returned by name servers "{ns_ip_list}".
Z09_MX_FOUND               | INFO  | ns_ip_list              | MX RRset was returned by name servers "{ns_ip_list}".
Z09_NON_AUTH_MX_RESPONSE   |WARNING| ns_ip_list              | Non-authoritative response on MX query from name servers "{ns_ip_list}".
Z09_NO_MX_FOUND            | INFO  | ns_ip_list              | No MX RRset was returned by name servers "{ns_ip_list}".
Z09_NO_RESPONSE_MX_QUERY   |WARNING| ns_ip_list              | No response on MX query from name servers "{ns_ip_list}".
Z09_NULL_MX_NON_ZERO_PREF  | NOTICE|                         | The zone has a Null MX with non-zero preference.
Z09_NULL_MX_WITH_OTHER_MX  |WARNING|                         | The zone has a Null MX mixed with other MX records.

> Z09_ROOT_EMAIL_DOMAIN      | NOTICE|                         | Root zone with an unexpected normal MX RRset.

Author: Updated.

> Z09_TLD_EMAIL_DOMAIN       |WARNING|                         | The zone is a TLD and has an unexpected normal MX RRset.

Author: Updated.

Z09_UNEXPECTED_RCODE_MX    |WARNING | ns_ip_list, rcode      | Unexpected RCODE value on the MX query from name servers "{ns_ip_list}".

The value in the Level column is the default severity level of the message. The
severity level can be changed in the [Zonemaster-Engine profile]. Also see the
[Severity Level Definitions] document.

The argument names in the Arguments column lists the arguments used in the
message. The argument names are defined in the [argument list].

## Test procedure

In this section and unless otherwise specified below, the terms "[DNS Query]"
follow the specification for DNS queries as specified in
[DNS Query and Response Defaults]. The handling of the DNS responses on the DNS
queries follow, unless otherwise specified below, what is specified for
[DNS Response] in the same specification.

> 1.  Create a [DNS Query] with query typ  SOA and query name *Child Zone*

Author: Fixed

    ("SOA Query").

> 2.  Create a [DNS Query] with query typ  MX and query name *Child Zone*

Author: Fixed.

          server IP to the *Non-authoritative MX* set.
       5. Else, if there is no MX record with matching owner name in the answer
          section, then add the name server (IP) to the *No MX RRset* set.
       6. Else do:
          1. Extract the MX RRset from the response.
          2. Add the name server IP and the MX RRset to the *MX RRset* set.

6.  If the set *No Response MX Query* is non-empty, then output
    *[Z09_NO_RESPONSE_MX_QUERY]* with the name server IP addresses from the set.

7.  If the set *Unexpected RCODE MX Response* is non-empty, then for each RCODE
    in the set, do:
    * Output *[Z09_UNEXPECTED_RCODE_MX]* with the RCODE value
      ([IANA RCODE List]) and the name server IP addresses from the set.

8.  If the set *Non-authoritative MX* is non-empty, then output
    *[Z09_NON_AUTH_MX_RESPONSE]* with the name server IP addresses from
    the set.

9.  If both *No MX RRset* set and *MX RRset* set are non-empty then:
    1. Output *[Z09_INCONSISTENT_MX_RRSETS]*.
    2. Output *[Z09_NO_MX_FOUND]* with the name server IP addresses from the
       *No MX RRset* set.
    3. Output *[Z09_MX_FOUND]* with the name server IP addresses from the

>        *MX RRset* set.

Author: I am not sure what you mean. I think the MsgID "The name servers return different MX RRsets" will work in both cases, especially since there will always be complementary message tags, Z09_NO_MX_FOUND+Z09_MX_FOUND in the firs case and in the other case multiple Z09_MX_DATA. (I saw a missing plural s on "target" on line 199.)

>        *MX RRset* set.

Author: It is a good point. I will update.

10. If the *MX RRset* set is non-empty, then do:
    1. If the RRsets in *MX RRset* are not equal for all name servers then do:
       1. Output *[Z09_INCONSISTENT_MX_RRSETS]*.
       2. For each RRset in *MX RRset*, output *[Z09_MX_DATA]* with the mail
          target from the RDATA and the associated name server IP addresses in
          the set.
    2. Else do:
       1. If the mailtarget of any of the MX records in the RRset in *MX RRset*
          is a [Null MX] then do:
          1. If there are more than one record in the MX RRset, then output
             *[Z09_NULL_MX_WITH_OTHER_MX]* with the mail targets from the RDATA
             of MX records.
          2. If the preference of the [Null MX] is non-zero then output
             *[Z09_NULL_MX_NON_ZERO_PREF]*.
       2. If *Child Zone* is a [TLD] with a [non-Null MX][Null MX] then

>           output *[Z09_TLD_EMAIL_DOMAIN]*.

Author: I think the comment was valid, and I keep the update which you will be able to review.

       1. Output *[Z09_INCONSISTENT_MX_DATA]*.
       2. For each RRset in *MX RRset*, output *[Z09_MX_DATA]* with the mail
          targets from the RDATA and the associated name server IP addresses in
          the set.
    2. Else do:
       1. If the mailtarget of any of the MX records in the RRset in *MX RRset*
          is a [Null MX] then do:
          1. If there are more than one record in the MX RRset, then output
             *[Z09_NULL_MX_WITH_OTHER_MX]* with the mail targets from the RDATA
             of MX records.
          2. If the preference of the [Null MX] is non-zero then output
             *[Z09_NULL_MX_NON_ZERO_PREF]*.
       2. If *Child Zone* is a [TLD] with a [non-Null MX][Null MX] then
          output *[Z09_TLD_EMAIL_DOMAIN]*.
       3. If *Child Zone* is the root zone with a [non-Null MX][Null MX] then
          output *[Z09_ROOT_EMAIL_DOMAIN]*.

11. Else, if the *No MX RRset* set is non-empty then do:
    * Output *[Z09_MISSING_MAIL_TARGET]* unless
      1. *Child Zone* is the root zone ("."), or
      1. *Child Zone* is a [TLD], or
      2. *Child Zone* is a zone in the .ARPA tree.

> 

Reviewer: I realize we are not outputting the list of found MX records at the end of this test anymore. This would be nice to list all found MX as NOTICE as before. This can be of value to know how the domain is configured to handle mails.

Top-level domains (TLDs) can technically function as email domains
([RCF 5321][RFC 5321#section-2.3.5], section 2.3.5) but they rarely have that
function and are probably not meant to be included in the specification in
[RFC 2142]. On the contrary, [Internet Architecture Board] concludes in a report
"[Dotless Domains Considered Harmful][IAB Statement]" that domain names that only
consists of one label, e.g. "se", "fr" or "com", should not be used for various
Internet services. This means TLD names should not be used as email domains.
In this test case TLDs are not only excluded from the requirement of being an
email domain, if found to be, a warning will be generated that points that out.

It is therefore expected for every domain (zone), excluding those above, to
publish an MX record in apex of the zone (i.e. in the same position as the SOA
record). If MX is not present, SMTP *can* deliver email using an address record
(A or AAAA) as specified in [RFC 5321][RFC 5321#section-5.1], section 5.1, but
that possibility is not in common use. This test case only checks for MX record
and ignores the possibility to use address records for email since that is the

> absolutely dominating way to configure support for email is to use MX. If an

Reviewer: too many words I guess: "since that is the absolutely ... is to use MX" -> "since the absolutely ... is to use MX"

Author: Yes. Fixed.

Message Tag                | Level | Arguments               | Message ID for message tag
:--------------------------|:------|:------------------------|:--------------------------------------------

> Z09_INCONSISTENT_MX        |WARNING|                         | Some name servers return an MX RRset while others return no MX.

Reviewer: suggestion: "while others return no MX" -> "while others return none"

Author: Yes, that works too. I'll update. Please re-review and mark comments as resolved if possible.
